Welcome back.
We are going to speak today about relational database.
In this lesson, you will learn and understand the different database services in the cloud and you
will discover the differences between and managed and managed database solution.
Then we will understand the difference between structured query language and no sequence database.
Then we will compare the availability differences of alternative database solution in use.
You can have two types of category of database system.
Whether you choose unmanaged or managed services in unmanaged services, you will be responsible for
scaling fault tolerance and availability of the database system in many services.
Scaling tolerance and availability are typically built in into this EMRs, or we call them a platform
as a service.
So let us look to the challenges of running a relational database system on a premises data center.
When you run your own relational database, you are responsible for several administrative tasks, such
as server maintenance, software, installation and patching database backups.
You are also responsible for ensuring high availability and the planning for the scalability.
The data security and operating system on installation and batching all of these tasks is your responsibility.
Amazon Ah, this is a managed service that systems and operates a relational database in the cloud.
You manage the application optimization and NWS manages the OS installation and the PATCHES database
software installation and patches database backup, high availability, scaling the power and racking
and stacking of the servers and the server maintenance in the process are this you have multiple option
to create a database instance.
Your database instance is an isolated database environment that can contain multiple user to create
a database.
It can be accessed by using the same tools and application that you use with a standalone database instances.
The resources in a database innocence are determined by its database.
Instance, a class and the type of a storage is dedicated for you database instance, database instances
and the storage different performance characteristics and the pricing model of them which enable you
to customize your performance and cost to the needs of your database.
When you choose to create a database instance, you must first specify which database engine to run.
Amazon Autodesk currently supports six databases in my sequel Amazon, Aurora, Microsoft Sequel Server,
Postgres, Maria, DB and Oracle database you can create an art is a highly available database multi
A-Z deployment.
One of the most powerful features of Amazon out of this is the ability to configure your database instance
for high availability with a multi easy deployment.
After multi edit deployment is configured, Amazon orders automatically generates a standby copy of
the database instance in another availability zone within the same VPC.
After seeding the database copy transaction are synchronously replicated to the standby copy.
Running a database instance in multi easy deployment can enhance the availability during a planned system
maintenance and it can help protect your database against database instance failure and availability
zone distribution.
It is very important to understand when we need to use and when we don't need to use an artist's.
You use Amazon orders when your application requires a complex transaction or a complex a query, which
means it's dealing with a structured query language with a relational database system where there is
relationship between entity.
When you have a medium to high query, alright, rate up to 30,000 or 15,000 reads plus 15,000.
Tonight when you have more than one single worker node or SHA, you are not using shard.
In this case you can use all of this.
If you are using SHA, then you have to go and install your own database system and win.
Hide your ability is a must in your application.
You don't use Amazon orders when your application requires a massive read write.
For example 150,000 writes per second when sharding is mandatory in your application because you have
to use your own sharding technique with your database system when you need to deal with your data using
a simple gate or portal request and the queries, the data with no sequel database system or a relational
database management system, which is very customized.
So if you have a customized version of a database engine that you need to install, in this case, you
have to go and install your own database system.
Amazon Aurora is another product of a WAC, so what is?
Is Amazon, Aurora.
Amazon.
Aurora is a sequel and Pulse Cigarettes sequel compatible relational database that is built for the
cloud.
It combines the performance and availability of high end commercial databases with the simplicity and
cost effectiveness of open source database.
You can use Amazon order to reduce your database cost while improving the reliability and availability
of the database as a fully managed service.
Aurora is designed to automate time consuming tasks like a provisioning patching, backup recovery,
failure detection and.
Amazon.
Aurora has several features.
In Amazon, Aurora is a highly scalable performance and cost effective managed relational database.
Aurora offers a distributed, high performance storage subsystem using Amazon.
Aurora can reduce your database costs while improving the reliability of the database.
Aurora is also designed to be highly available.
It has fault, tolerant and self-healing storage built for the cloud.
Aurora replicates multiple copies of your data across multiple availability zone, and it continuously
backs up your data to Amazon as city.
In Amazon, Aurora, you have multiple levels of security which are available, including network isolation,
your own Amazon VPC encryption for the data at risk by using keys that you create and control it through
a key management service.
And you can also encrypt of the data in transit by using a secure socket.
Amazon Aurora database engine is compatible with existing Ms. Equal and Postgres Open Source database
and adds compatibility for new releases inadequate basis.
Amazon Aurora is a fully managed by Amazon are the Aurora automates database management tasks such as
hardware, provisioning, software, patching, set up configuration or backup of the database.
Now let us look to Amazon Dynamo DB in Amazon Dynamo DB, which is a no sequel database.
So what is the difference between relational and non relational databases?
Relational database are these works with structured data that is organized by table records and columns.
Are these establish a well-defined relationship between database table like a teacher to many students,
as students are taught by one teacher, we use nonlinear structure the query language to query the database,
which is the standard user application and provide a programming interface for that data.
With relational database, you might have difficulty scaling out horizontally or working with semi-structured
data, which means you have to think about another religion.
And another relational database is any database that does not follow.
The relational model that is provided by traditional relational database management assistant.
Non relational database have grown in popularity because they were designed to overcome the limitation
of relational database for handling the demand of variable structured data.
Non relational databases scales out horizontally and they can work with any structured and semi-structured
data in Amazon Dynamo.
DB We can create a flexible and fast, highly scalable with virtually unlimited storage, where a team
can have differing attributes with low latency creating, where you have the ability to scale the read
and write is the core component of Dynamo.
DB Are tables, items and assets.
Items are a group of attributes that is uniquely identifiable among all other items.
Attributes are fundamental data element, something that does not need to be broken down.
Any fear of this dynamo?
Do we support two different kinds of primary keys?
The partition key, which is assembly primary key, which is composed of one attribute called the solid
key.
And the partition key and the source key are also known as composite primary key, which is composed
of two attributes.
Now let us look to Amazon Redshift.
Amazon Redshift is our first fully managed data warehousing that make it simple and cost effective.
To analyze all your data by using standard sequel and your existing business, intelligence to analytics
is important for business today.
Building a data warehousing is a complex and expensive data warehouse.
It can take months and significant financial resources to setup with Amazon.
Redshift is a fast and powerful, fully managed data warehousing that is simple and cost effective to
set up use and scale.
It enables you to run complex analytics securely against beta microstructure data by using sophisticated
the query optimization column and out of storage on high performance, local disk and massively parallel
data processing.
Most results come back in second.
Amazon Redshift contains two types of node.
We have the leader node which manages communication with the client to programs and all communication
with compute nodes.
The compute nodes pass and.
Develop the plans to carry out database operations, specifically this series of steps that are needed
to be obtained.
The result of a complex.
It queries leader and it compiles code for individual elements of the plan and assigns the code to individual
compute nodes, compute and run the compile code and send an intermediate results back to the leader
node for final aggregation.
Like other services, you only pay for what you use.
You can get a started for as little as $0.25 per hour, and at scale, Amazon Redshift can deliver storage
and processing of approximately $1,000 per terabyte per year.
So Amazon Redshift is a fast, fully managed data warehousing service, easily scale with no downtime.
It's support column in our storage and parallel processing architecture and automatically and continuously
monitor the cluster and decryption is a built in feature.
Thank you for seeing this video and see you in the next one.